### **Session 01 Summary** (Jun 12, 2025)

**Escape from Pordaglaw**

- The party escaped the sewers of Pordaglaw to find the city overrun by
ghoul-like creatures—some mutated citizens, others spawned from an attacking
ship ("Sorrow’s Maiden") in orbit.
    
- Fighting their way to their ship, they struggled to keep possession of an
important artifact: a mysterious tablet. The party successfully recovered it
and boarded their ship.
    
- As they departed, their ship took heavy fire and one crew member (Mute) was
badly wounded, but the party managed to escape into space.
    

**A Dire Warning and a Stowaway**

- After escaping, the attacking ship did not pursue but sent a threatening
message: “They shall not be stopped; tell the old man his suffering will be
never-ending.”
    
- At that moment, a battered, unconscious stranger in tattered robes (later
revealed as a half-elf named Silo) was found in the ship’s infirmary. The party
stabilized him and discovered:
    
    - He was malnourished, bore old injuries from torture, and had meticulously
    cared-for hands—suggesting he was kept alive and mentally sharp for his
    skill as a scholar or scribe.
        
    - He possessed a journal with encoded notes and a silver pendant.
        

**Securing the Ship and Investigation**

- The party confirmed Silo was the only stowaway. Examination of ship systems
revealed he likely boarded via a rarely-used exhaust system, suggesting
technical knowledge and desperation.
    
- Silo, while unconscious, mumbled a repeated mantra (“Never find the peace… in
the end we shall be set free…”), hinting at deep trauma.
    

**Star Map and New Destinations**

- The GM introduced a digital starmap tool, letting players view known systems,
planets, and possible travel routes. The party discussed possible destinations:
    
    - **Three habitable planets** (Connes, Vante, and one other) and a
    **research station** in their current sector.
        
    - Vante is in religious turmoil; Connes is a rebel water world; the
    research station is more isolated, run by a Shiren research team.
        

**Silo Awakens: The Truth Revealed**

- Silo regained consciousness and revealed:
    
    - He was a scholar, kidnapped by the captain of the Sorrow’s Maiden, who
    sought knowledge of ancient prophecies and artifacts.
        
    - Silo was kept weak, tortured, and forced to chronicle discoveries, but
    his hands and mind were maintained to record everything.
        
    - The captain seeks to fulfill a series of apocalyptic prophecies using
    ancient relics. The tablet the party possesses is one such artifact, linked
    to a “cleansing plague” that mutates and destroys the unworthy, and is only
    the first movement of a multi-stage process.
        
    - There are at least **four more prophecies/artifacts** the captain may
    target next, each capable of triggering disastrous cosmic events.
        

**Downtime and Preparation**

- The party decided to travel to the research station on an asteroid for rest,
resupply, and information-gathering.
    
- During travel, crew members healed, trained, researched, made outside
contacts, and earned some credits.
    
- On arrival, Helix established a friendly contact at the research station,
securing an opportunity for limited aid and news.
    

**Silo’s Guidance and Next Steps**

- Silo, grateful for rescue, offered to translate his encoded notes and guide
the party to the other prophecies to prevent the villain from enacting them.
    
- The four known remaining prophecies involve:
    
    1. The awakening of an ancient order of knights/protectors who will judge
    the cosmos without mercy.
        
    2. A curse that enlightens the masses to cosmic mysteries, preparing them
    for change and “cleansing.”
        
    3. A great beast that will open the way for the cleansing as a harbinger.
        
    4. The rise of a god-touched redeemer who will challenge rulers and lead
    people into a new era.
        
- The villain (referred to only as “the Captain” or “Plague”) wears archaic
armor, speaks through a mask, and is both ruthless and cunning.
    
- Silo does **not** know which prophecy the villain will target next, but
believes the party can interfere and prevent at least some disasters.
    

**Party Decision**

- The group decided to:
    
    - **Visit the research station** for supplies and intelligence.
        
    - **Pursue the “Knight” prophecy** next (the awakening of the ancient order
    of knights).
        

---

**Session ends** with the party having landed at the research station, Silo
offering further information, and the group preparing for their next quest to
thwart the apocalyptic prophecies.

